git status
result: (not a git repository)
(because the .git folder is missing)

#in any folder as long as the Git client is installed
git init
(and then normal git commands)

#to add all files
git add . 
git commit
(add message)

git status
(no changes to commit)

git log
(to get the hash of the commit)

git push
(no configured push destination)

git remote add origin git@gitlab.com:sly/test-node-app.git
git status
git push
fatal: The current branch master has no upstream branch.
(repo is connected, branch is Not)

git push --set-upstream origin master
(Branch master setup to track remote branch master from origin)
(branch connected)
(refresh your Gitlab page to see the uploaded info)
- if we deleted the .git folder we wouldn't be connected to the repo anymore, so we'd have to reconnect it)
rm -rf .git
git status
fatal: not a git repository.

#Concept of branching
Master branch is the main branch, created by default when initializing a repo.
Best practice: It's best to create a branch for each feature and each bugfix. 
Developers can commit without worrying to break main branch.
Big feature branches long open, increase the chance of 'merge conflicts'.
With branches, you achieve a stable main (master) branch, which is ready for deployment.
Any branch is based on the master branch. Branch starts from the same codebase.

git branch

(but the local master branch doesn't know about the other branches created in cloud, so we need to update the local info)
git pull

To switch in between branches:
git checkout <branchname>, so:
git checkout bugfix/user-auth
(now we'd get the local branch connected to the remote branch, so every change to the local code, will only affected the branch 'bugfix/user-auth')

#command line to create a new branch
git checkout master
(to get the master branch updates)

#create a branch and connect
git checkout -b feature/database-connection

If you run 'git branch' the remote repo will not know of the local branch created.
git status
ls
nano <file>
git add .
git commit
(type message, save and exit)

git status
git push
(this doesn't work because the remote repo doesn't know about the feature/ branch)

git push --set-upstream origin feature/database-connection

Lots of teams have a master and a develop branch. The Dev branch is the intermediary master. Then their active branches such as features/ and bugfixes/ get merged
into the develop branch (during the spring) and then the develop branch gets merged with the master, at the end of the sprint. 

Only master branches are used for CI-CD (continuous integration and continuous delivery).
Pipeline is triggered whenever feasture/bugfix code is merged into master.
Deploy every single feature/bugfix to the DEV branch. DEV branches also become 'work in progress' branches.

#Merge requests
Best practice: other developer reviews code changes before merging. Master - is stable and ready for production. 
Use cases: big feature, junior developer or expertise in different area. Great chance to learn and grow from each other.
We use pull requests!!!!
You can view these changes and need merging in the GitLab console under Branches, Merge request on the feature/ branches. 

The 2 numbers mean this:
0 1 
0 - there are 0 changes on the master that I need to merge or pull down
1 - there is 1 change on the branch that needs to be merged with the master.

This can all be done through the GitLab GUI online. 

git pull

If you click Merge, your branch will merge with the Master.

##########
Deleting branches <---------------

Leave the branch or delete it.
Delete branch after merging. Create a new branch when needed.
Don't end up with 100s of branches that nobody knows what they are for. 

Delete the branch locally, if you've deleted on the remote online branch, otherwise you still have it locally.
git checkout master
git pull
git branch -d <name-of-branch>
git branch -d feature/database-connection
















 

































